# 1. Environment Setting 

<br/><br/>


## 1.1 Ubuntu Installation

Since TOPST AI Linux SDK is based on the Yocto Project, Linux version of TOPST AI SDK follows the Yocto project.

You can install another version of Linux, but in this document, TOPST AI Linux SDK is described based on Ubuntu 22.04.

Linux distribution version:

- Ubuntu 22.04 (LTS)

<br/><br/>

## 1.2 Install WSL2 Ubuntu 

1. Excute Windows PowerShell with "Run with administrator privileges"
2. Enable the WSL2 System.
    ```
    dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
    ```
3. Enable the Virtual Machine feature.
    ```
    dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
    ```
4. Set WSL 2 to the default version
    ```
    wsl --set-default-version 2
    ```
5. Search for Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS in Microsoft Store and download it.

    * If you need to download the Linux kernel update package, download the latest package [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/ko-kr/windows/wsl/install-manual).


<br/><br/>

## 1.3 Setting Linux Environment

<br/>

### 1.3.1 Install SSH and Samba 

Working in a Linux environment is slow, but you can use SSH and Samba to
work in a much more convenient environment. SSH and

Samba allows you to execute commands on remote computers and copy files
to other computers.

If SSH and Samba are already installed or you will not use them, you can
skip this chapter.

```
 $ sudo apt-get install -y net-tools openssh-server samba 
```

After downloading SSH and Samba, you should set each program to your
environment.

<br/>

### 1.3.2 Install Utilities for Yocto Project 

Install the utilities at once. To use Yocto Project, the following
utilities must be installed on Host PC(individual computer or

development server).

```
$ sudo apt-get install -y gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib
$ sudo apt-get install -y build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect
$ sudo apt-get install -y xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint3 xterm

```

<br/>

### 1.3.3 Install Repo

You can download TOPST AI SDK through Repo.

To install the repo, refer to the following website:
<https://source.android.com/source/downloading.html>

If repo is already installed, you can use it without re-installation.

Before installing repo, the installed Python version (3.6 or higher)should be properly set.

```
$ sudo ln -sf /usr/bin/python3 /usr/bin/python
$ sudo apt-get install repo
```

<br/>

If there is a repo error, download the latest version and put it directly into /usr/bin/ the folder.

```
$ mkdir -p ~/bin
$ curl http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo &gt;~/bin/repo
$ chmod a+x ~/bin/repo
$ sudo mv ~/bin/repo /usr/bin/repo
```
