#  1. Setting Host Environment

<br><br>

## 1.1 Ubuntu Installation

Since TOPST D3 Linux SDK is based on the Yocto Project, Linux version of TOPST D3 SDK follows the Yocto project.

You can install another version of Linux, but in this document, TOPST D3 Linux SDK is described based on Ubuntu 22.04.

Linux distribution version:

- Ubuntu 18.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu 20.04 (LTS)
- Ubuntu 22.04 (LTS)

<br/><br/>

## 1.2 Install WSL2 Ubuntu 

1. Excute Windows PowerShell with "Run with administrator privileges"
2. Enable the WSL2 System.
    ```
    dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
    ```
3. Enable the Virtual Machine feature.
    ```
    dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
    ```
4. Set WSL 2 to the default version
    ```
    wsl --set-default-version 2
    ```
5. Search for Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS in Microsoft Store and download it.

    * If you need to download the Linux kernel update package, download the latest package [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/ko-kr/windows/wsl/install-manual).


<br/><br/>

## 1.3 Setting Linux Environment

<br>

### 1.3.1 Install SSH and Samba

After any virtual machine installed, you can use additional utilities such as SSH and Samba for more convenient development environment. SSH and Samba allows you to execute commands on remote computers and copy files to other computers.

If SSH and Samba are already installed or you will not use them, you can skip this chapter.

Use the following command to install net-tools, SSH, Samba.

```
$ sudo apt install -y net-tools openssh-server samba
```


After downloading SSH and Samba, you should set each program to your environment.

<br>

### 1.3.2 Utilities

Install the utilities at once. To use Yocto Project, the following utilities must be installed on Host System (inpidual computer or development server).

Use the following command to install Utilities.

```
$ sudo apt-get install -y gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib build-essential chrpath

$ sudo apt-get install -y socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils

$ sudo apt-get install -y iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint

$ sudo apt-get install -y xterm zstd ncftp curl git-lfs vim zip
```

<br>

### 1.3.3 Install Repo

You can download TOPST D3 SDK through Android Repo.  
To install Repo, refer to the following website: https://source.android.com/source/downloading.html.  
If Repo is already installed, you can use it without re-installing.  
Before installing Repo, the installed Python version (3.6 or higher) should be properly set.

Use the following command to install repo.
```
$ sudo apt-get install repo
```

If you see the error messange '/usr/bin/env 'python' no such file or directory', use the following command that allows the file 'python' to point to 'python3'.

```
$ sudo ln -sf /usr/bin/python3 /usr/bin/python
```
If there is a Repo error, Use the following command to download the latest version and put it directly into the /usr/bin/ folder.

```
$ mkdir -p ~/bin

$ curl http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/bin/repo

$ chmod a+x ~/bin/repo

$ sudo mv ~/bin/repo /usr/bin/repo
```

<br/>

### 1.3.4 Udev Rules for Telechips USB Device
After you excute following command, You don't need to use 'sudo' command when you download FWDN in Linux.
```
$ echo "SUBSYSTEM==\"usb\", ATTR{idVendor}==\"140e\", MODE=\"0666\", OWNER=\"${USER}\"" | sudo tee /etc/udev/rules.d/99-topst.rules
$ sudo udevadm control --reload-rules && sudo udevadm trigger
```
